Before we finish creating our walk cycle we need to create a sprite sheet document that we can start
dropping these frames into what is a spreadsheet document.
Well a Spryte sheet is a file that a game can use to pull up multiple images without having to load
more than one file.
So basically what it does is it's one document that has a bunch of different frames on it for an animation.
And what happens is the program for your game draws from each image.
When it's called upon and displays it.
And that's what creates the illusion of the animation.
The key to a Sprite she is making sure that you create it on a grid system.
So each one of our friends is going to have to be dropped into a grid on our document so that way they
are found in the same exact position as the other ones.
Even though their movement will be different their position will still be the same.
And I'll show you what I mean in a second.
So let's go ahead and create a new document so we'll go file new our document needs to be five times
the width of our image so we can fit 5 across to it and it needs to be three times the height of our
image.
So we can fit three images down so our image is 600 pixels across.
So we need to do six hundred times five which is going to be 3000 pixels next door height which is going
to be 600 times three which will be 8300 pixels.
And then we can hit OK.
So now we have a new document what we want to do is we need to create our grid system that we can drop
our images into.
So the way we'll do that is by coming over to our edit tab and coming all the way down to preferences.
Once we get there we want to come up to where it says guides grid and slices.
So we'll select that and you'll see this window comes up.
Now what we need to do is we need to change our inches into pixels so pixels now says grid line.
Every one pixel.
Now we don't want to every one pixel.
Otherwise it would be a super small grid.
What we want is we want it to be every six hundred pixels so every time we have the length of our image
we want a grid line.
So we're going to type in six hundred.
Now if you like you can go ahead and change the color of your grid line.
I don't really care.
So I'm not going to do it.
We'll hit OK.
Next we're going to come up to view and then come down to show then we'll come down to where it says
grid.
And we want to select that.
So now it shows our grid.
Now don't worry.
This grid isn't going to be here when we do the final export of our Sprite she.
Now let's go ahead and let's drop in our first frame on Taurus right.
So let's come back to our frame one of the walking cycle and what we need to do is we need to compress
all of this into one image so we're going to select everything from the spear all the way up to the
mask.
Then we're going to hit Control J or command J on a Mac to make a copy of all those layers.
Now that we have a copy of all those.
Let's go ahead and select them and merge those layers together.
So now we have one image of our character that's flattened and we still also have all of our layers
so we can still edit it if we need to.
Next what we need to do is we need to select our flattened image layer that we just created and then
we're also going to select our background.
Now the way you do this is by holding down control and then selecting your second layer and that will
allow you to select two different layers or as many as you like but it allow you to skip all the layers
in between now that we have those selected Let's go ahead and click them and we're going to drag them
into our other document then we can just go ahead and drop it in and you'll see it brings both those
layers.
Now you may be wondering why I brought in the white background.
The reason is is that if we don't bring in that white background this is not going to know where to
snap to.
So you can't really see the background but you'll notice that if I bring it over here into position
it will kind of lock into place.
And that's because that square background is there.
So if we let it go there you'll see he's in position.
If we were to turn this background off you'll see that white background that we brought in is snapping
right to our grid.
Now if yours is not snapping it's because you don't have your snap to grids and document bounds turned
on the way you do this is by coming up to view.
Then come down to snap to and make sure you have guides grids layers and document bounds selected.
Now let's go ahead and on this turned off white background.
We're going to go ahead and just delete it because we don't really need it.
It's just making it hard to see where our square background is lining up with the grid.
So we're going to go ahead and unlock it by hitting this lock icon right here and that will allow us
to delete it.
So now we just hit delete and it deletes that layer.
Now that we have our character positioned in the grid we can also go ahead and delete this white square
background's will hit delete.
Now we're just left with our character which is the way we want this when we export it is each one of
these will be filled with a different frame and then we can export the.
I hope this lecture was helpful for you and you learned a lot about spreadsheets and how they work and
how to create them.
Now let's go ahead and let's jump back into creating our walk cycle.